Good afternoon Today our guest is Dolyan Erin Tsen, a
representative of the Airat
people or better known under the
Russian name of Kalmykia and a member of
the Airat Congress of the Kalmyk people and the
League of Free Nations
Andrey, here is a
polite address How do you have a prefix,
how do you address that politely,
simply by name,
representatives of the people in Russia communicate
on the topic of the Independence of their peoples on the topic of
their history, and now I think that if I'm not
mistaken
Or as more famous for
Kalmyks of a wide circle, because in the Soviet
Union in the Russian Empire they called it the
only Buddhist people in Europe, so
if I'm not mistaken,
then you can briefly tell how,
for example,
your people, how it ended up in the
Russian Empire and how it is now going
to gain its Independence,
naturally Russian
presents history  Airat Kalmykov as
such people  the Chinese persecuted from
everywhere And so they came to the shores
begged
to be taken to Muscovy then there was no
Russia, they
fell on their faces and simply asked asked they
asked so much I would like
such Moscow ones
But in fact
Who are the aerats this
[music]
union of Arab tribes that were part of the
Great Mongol Empire
we have one language, the Mongols in the
past, we
know
that the
Arabic language itself turned out to be,
as it were,
isolation in conservation, this language of ours
has retained all the grams
of the time when
it disappeared in the Mongolian language for a minute, the
Russian language is not at all the same as it
was before and
Arabic  the language is the most suitable according to all the
rules and it is recognized by the Mongolian
scientists, the old Mongolian turns out to be such that one
must understand that the
Aerots,
even
after the split of the Mongol empire, the
Dzungar Khanate, if I’m not mistaken, the
connection is lost a little, they are conquering the
territories,
I heard well, the connection was lost a little,
I clarified or the Dzungar Khanate
was called Yes
Yes
last empire of kotor  aya
controlled the
territories up to the
[music] of the
Caspian Sea
By the way, the Buryats are peoples and languages ​​related to you, of
course, the Buryats were
also part of the airborne group
, by the
way, they have such a yes, it
depends on you, is it the flag of Ukraine or is it your
national colors, because I know
that you also have yellow blue ones This is the flag of Ukraine
I’m introducing it Everywhere I’ve been
since the
Russian
Federation occupied Crimea this place and
our logs of Light this is how it
looks
like Lotus in the middle of
purity the
nobility of love I’m looking at something
like If I’m not mistaken Among the Tuvans  also
yellow and blue Yes, there are colors of flags and the
Buryats
are common, as it were, for Mongolia for the
Mongolian peoples, these are common colors
that are
used in various
scenery
[music]
now here is the population, how much
is the population of Airats now you have there
in Russia
you know the last census of the
total population  it was about 180 thousand, what
year was
10 was 16 or something,
but is your capital if
as a rule
And by the way  it means the word
city on the sand of the
Caspian Sea, it is located there,
that is, there are oil deposits there, there are resources.
the republic, but not in
full, large territories
And these are the
most fertile, richest resources, they
simply took away not only that they do not
return
under the terms of the rehabilitation agreement, they do not
return these, they are still cutting back,
there are even lands that
do not belong inside the Republic
and many do not know about this if they  ask a
question You know about this they will be
surprised to make big eyes
like this Moscow does whatever it wants with the
natives
and moreover, you know the Russians have
some kind of
quality they are all these other peoples
who are not Russians they are somehow squeamish
about  Ukrainians now,
if I remember Under the Soviet Union
b  There were straight jokes of different
nationalities there about Georgians about Armenians
Ukrainians about Moldovans they all became
somehow funny And now I think that
many of your compatriots were
faced with what they say
somewhere in Moscow or in St. Petersburg your
compatriots with unpleasant words
Central Asians are unpleasant
in words, yes, that is, they have some kind of
hatred and contempt for all non-Russians,
but how does this modern Russian Empire work,
it takes the
conquered peoples and rushes to
conquer new peoples
;  the first genocide of
these indigenous peoples And secondly, with the
help of them, they are trying to conquer new
territory, by the way, how do people in
Kalmykia feel about this because I
see that there are many as well as
Tatarstan from Bashtan fall into this
war And how do the population feel about
this
[music]
should,
as it were, remember the stories that the Empire
She always acted in this way and
for example  Why is our people
not as numerous as the
Bashkirs?
because of this, people found themselves, they gave them some kind of
glorification, vile,
disgusting In the name of the empire, some kind of
abstract
pressure of something But in fact they
simply destroyed
it It helps them
control small people
For example, we have only 200 thousand
in this republic, all power  structures are
led by Russians
Yes, they supervise they
come, they are not local, they come by the
way, Batu Khasikov,
our kind of head of the Republic of Kalmykia, was
imposed on him of course from above and he was
glad to curry favor brought the former
leader of the DPR
songs from the DPR, we
had a wave of indignation
rallies, but unfortunately
Everything died out
gone
with coronavirus
restrictions it's them  helped to keep
him in power and now he
feels completely at ease with us
[music]
occupies leadership positions, even
moves up and also
plays the role of supervisory bodies
that seem to be already overfulfilling the mobilization plan
in our country But this is disgusting and we recently had such a  the case
was taken by the
mobilized Volzhsky, there they had a fight
,
this fight arose against the background of
Airat, he said something bad, of
course he was dragging him and there he got
[music]
who came to
figure it out As they say, this would be energy Yes, the
right direction
[music]
Brave guys
for some reason nobody
[  music]
mother,
rather, or artificially created poverty,
raising the
prices of raising the retirement age,
this would really be the right direction for energy
. Unfortunately,
Propaganda, while even stronger than the
propagandist people,
is trying in every possible way to draw the attention of
our fellow countrymen to the fact that the
Empire is destroying us and we are not Russians
We need to distance ourselves
as quickly as possible  otherwise damn  In 20-30 years it
will be too late those native speakers of the shadow
numerous native speakers who
now exist they are leaving every day
soon they will not be at all and
God
forbid we will gain Independence and we will already
work on the revival of the native language of the
culture of our
mentality the
Russian mentality simply devours
people
so much so that almost
Airat is
almost
obtained in schools teaching in Russian
Yes, of course Of course,
all the
laws on the voluntary study of the
native language work, of course,
they do not teach mathematics, physics, they must be
only in Russian, all this has long
disappeared back
in the late sixties, they say there were
still  national classes but at the beginning of
elementary
by the time I already went to school in my
native language
, now
I saw the
forum of the Freedom of Peoples, or rather Free
Russia
Free Russia, where Russian democrats
speak out and say that they do not see
the national policy of the Kremlin,
they explain this by the fact that
[music]
national regs  those
occupied peoples do not have authors
who can replace
Dostoevsky There are turgen and so on These
are brothers
Yes of course now there are practically no people
who write in their native language
Well the reason for this is simply
rooted out People's native language
was deportation later
after deportation
using
soft  technologies of the
Russian language to
ridicule those people who speak the
native language of the children, they even drank for the fact
that they speak Russian, they
forced them to speak Russian
it was passed from
mouth to mouth precisely
[applause]
in such a memorized form Yes, each
Airat had a practically large vocabulary
had a good memory so that each clan in
each village had its own folk
songs sing songs in general everyone knew here with
us I remember
our grandmother and came to  her
other neighbors and here he is  and sat singing
such
folk songs called so
drawn out so beautiful
several
grandmothers listening to them was a
pleasure such a
beauty of their voice Yes,
without even musical instruments And
now I’m watching the
feed, my entire feed is almost
crammed on Facebook
with events from Ukraine,
someone shares I’m amazed
When there are
so many songs so beautiful, all of them
are so
positive, motivating and open. There is
practically not a single one. It seems
that our cultural front has
manifested itself very strongly in this war, both with pictures
and masterpieces, some
still new, still new dates. Exactly. And
we had it all once
so many songs My grandfather is also a
great-uncle
He
wrote songs he wrote
music
It was everywhere everywhere And now it’s
all been taken away from us and also with this
And you can be as complete as you can
in relation
and what is left now is
lucky for all
those who
gained independence with the collapse of the Soviet Union
how Ukraine Georgia Kazakhs generally
develop their national culture is a
national  New languages ​​are able to develop
only independently only in the
conditions of
Freedom in the conditions of cultural Freedom in the conditions of
Freedom of speech
Therefore,
we need
to understand now that Ukrainians
are fighting for Ukraine not only for their
struggle, there is Ukraine, we
have
it, therefore we all the body of the Congress and the
Arab
people support Ukraine immediately
almost after the war, the
congress
protested against the
aggression of the war, for which the
activists were
subjected to repression by persecution and
some managed to
escape migrated to other countries, well,
here, of course, we are not staying on the
side, we are trying to gather somehow to
consolidate, moreover, we are
establishing links with the national
liberation movement of other peoples of
Bashkiria
and
perhaps someone  someday watching
this video please join
in action we are more and more
and more and more people are talking about
us Let's fight for our and your freedom
Well I will say this when else I raised
questions about Russia falling apart
because h  it is logical that the Empire is not
disintegrating so historically, it began to
disintegrate in 917, continued in 1991 with the
collapse of the Soviet Union, and now,
under the influence of this war that
Putin said that he would lose, it will
disintegrate further than the Russian Empire into
national states, but this is what
I noticed when part of some
Russians with representatives of different
nations, some of them do not believe in their
independence The empire imposed some kind of
second-rateness that you yourself can’t
If I say, for example
, there are several million Bashkords and that’s
200 thousand of you, but I give examples
Iceland
Iceland A small country on the island so
300 thousand  of the population, but their GDP
per capita lives higher than in Russia, but
for some reason small Iceland, where
in fact they just
can’t do fishing, by and large and
not connected with the main mainland,
they can live well, and people in
Russia who are representatives of the peoples are the
same  for example, some do not
believe in airat  If you have oil, you have
other resources, you have access to the
Caspian Sea, you have
huge trade routes between the east and west, that
is, people need to be informed that
there are examples of small states in
Europe that live cool, live and
develop, that's how you  the situation is, you
have some kind of economic
development, you
studied it, you
propagate among your own that Moscow is
taking resources from us, therefore we are poor, of
course, the empire
is exactly the
points of the peoples Yes,
small peoples
use meat, use their resources and
constantly dominates them and enjoys
this is
inferiority complexes complexes of that
that
you
are only capable of being
[music]
teaching, and so on, of
course,
many
are subject to this
propaganda here and perceive it
really Yes, well, we don’t seem to have
factories Why no
one has thought
for 300 years
Can’t people have something there  we
had
dairy republics
one hundred plants, despite the fact that there
were
practically in every region
now there are no
factories for the production of the fishing
industry, that is, in the Russian
regions yes, we lived on the Volga, the
Caspian Sea, yes
And where does it all go?
The fact is that this situation is created
artificially in order to
keep the regions of the
occupied countries
dependent  from the Kremlin and of course, it’s
easier to manage them so it’s easier to
use their
labor force to use military
people of course
[music]
Yakutia is
potentially the richest countries in the world,
not only that
Yakutia mines diamonds, but they live in poverty,
but in Buryatia,
almost the entire periodic table
could not  to live,
and there are not so many people there, but there are a
lot of resources, and
that’s exactly how we also have in Kalmykia
Kalmykia, the country is a
republic in territory larger than Georgia
, five million live in Georgia
, we have only
300 thousand
[
music]  we don't have a forest and what is
this  buy a forest for an hour, yes, iron metal comes from somewhere,
but now where do you come from,
metal
does not bring us free of charge, no one is
free of charge People work, people go there,
they also buy, they come here, they sell it’s
all the
principle of saving
everywhere it works, especially since the
Republic of Kalmykia is strategically
located very
favorably  the connection is a bunch of the Caucasus and the
North to the West and the East
in general, the husband is
so good that people don’t even
imagine that’s the point, you know, they
impose their inferiority on people
without a king without that’s what everything comes from there,
you know how I saw in poor
villages, for example, comes  the deputy, he
will give some handouts to the grandmothers there and they are
already happy, but they don’t understand that this is
their money. He distributes those that he gave to the
State Treasurer absolutely here,
too, the federal budget takes
huge resources and then the Federal
Center, as you know, gives handouts and
calls you there  these as it is budgetary
on budgetary remote regions
l so that Bashkortostan
3 percent, if I’m not mistaken, I looked at
Russian statistics
and at the same time this is an organizational region That
is, how, because they think so,
they leave taxes there, salaries are left in the
republics Yes, federal analogies
take the federal budget so they don’t
consider them as for a republic You see
a subsidized region because you are one of those
taxes that we left you, you didn’t
get it and we will now
give you a federal center from the Barsky Shoulder and people are a
person who does not understand the
economy, he looks Well, yes, we will not survive,
all free countries somehow survive,
we will take the same  Europe Yes,
Yugoslavia
has been there, Slovenia has become there Croatia is living
normally Croatia is developing huge
beaches, huge tourist potential, and
therefore it seems to me that yes, we should
inform all people, including who
will watch us, distribute these
videos, because people need to be woken up
if we want everything  so that people take and
change, but we will not change people until
we change  they are in their heads. It is very
good that we hold meetings like this, we
explain it, because many people do not
think or somehow do not find
answers to their questions, and by the way,
thank you for taking the time
to talk, so I think if someone
else  there will be questions yes You can write in the
comments under the video so I think that
our bone
I will give him a link to the video if there is an
interesting question he will gladly answer
so you could leave comments
because especially for us Ukrainians,
as if I always bring when there was
Soviet  Union Europe America
perceived everyone who is Russian Russian Russian
Also now there are a lot of people there in
Ukraine Europe of everyone In Russia, too,
Russian Russia there are
Bashkords Many have not even heard of
such peoples, but they occupy vast
territories
Yes Yes
Now I am
And when you ask me a question
Where are you from? The
Republic of Kalmykia is
straining
Russia
occupied by Russia
[music]
[laughter]
many good people among them are kind  x
people are sympathetic and understanding people and
knows that they are
committing a crime I
have many friends Yes, too, again, but
you need
to separate and be able to separate the
Russian world and just Russian people What
is the Russian world
that everywhere she pushes this one
along with culture along
with all the
paraphernalia
Okay, you read Pushkin Dostoevsky
how good you are now in your soul with
thoughts to match
just the
title of a person how much more humane
you are If you, for example, condemn this war
If you want to say
declare Yes, I am not involved in
You go out there and you protest,
write posts, talk to people Yes, of
course,
going out there now to protest
constantly is a great feat, on the one
hand,
because everyone knows that
repressions are inevitable.
Let's remember Maidan Euro Maidan
14 when
People from all over Ukraine came to Kyiv from all over Ukraine in order to defend their independence, they set up tents there, burned these tires Yes, they spent the night not for one day, but for several months And it began in Winter, when the frosts were 20 degrees, what is the spirit of the Ukrainian people and now what do we see People against the war someone doesn’t want to fight and they run, they run in different directions in Georgia, they run Kazakhstan, again, immigration is like this. there is more than one of them on the square. You know what else is the problem, because they run all alone. Every man for himself, the Empire has taken away from these people the sense of collectivity, the feeling that here they are One for all and all anew Ukrainians, we have a national liberation movement all the time that is, this is solidarity, and here it turns out They run run they can he runs he himself with his child  m, for example, and with my wife. Here
they run as a family unit of society, but
they can no longer coordinate with ten families to
defend their interests.
makes you think and raises many
questions why this is happening Why
naturally I have one question
The empire is already how the system works
so
well for the empire
in people it
is complex Select
fears this is my hut on the edge better than mine
Yes
and I am often reproached
myself  You dumped and
ran away Well, yes,
because I
don’t believe people who say We
will support you there
now, our activist is sitting with us
for several trials against him, he is still
collecting
cases on the free ulus, the channel
that I run in the telegram
incriminates him with the administration of the
free
has nothing to do with the freestyle
He is just a
previous work a
person is literate
notes on which people about  he
criticized the same Khasikov, the
chairmen of Khurals and so on,
our fields, therefore they
take revenge on him and want to
make him have two children, his wife, his
elderly mother
, threatens him with 10 years.
no one goes to
rallies no one goes to pickets
with the words freedom
and I know that
if they grabbed me then
[music]
I would just die
for me to spend
a
couple of months in prison it’s just death
You
left you are waging a political struggle
this is very  that is, you are a member of
this congress of the Iradian people,
you are conducting informational enlightenment, that
is, it will not just find there, an
emigrant left there,
went to work and scored, you continue
your political struggle, but just like
we used to do,
Ukrainian immigration also waged a
political struggle, transmitted some
now you can run a channel from Telegram and
people
read it before they had to
print it in Europe  that is, in immigration,
underground newspapers were transmitted by various
channels of communication;
there was a collective organization.
It was an organization of Ukrainian
nationalists that fought for the
independence of Ukraine, as I understand it,
it’s problematic that there are no such
close-knit organizations and Well, for now, at
this stage, the
very meeting.  -Russian
consciousness of this Kalmyk
folk so people have not yet matured to the
fact that it is necessary to unite and protect
their interests, but I always say
everything will change very quickly Because
if we look at the Soviet Union, who
believed in the late 80s that there In a
couple of years the Soviet  The Union will fall apart If
someone said they looked like they said they were a
fool
and then once and fell apart literally in a
matter of a month and people started to
demonstrate and here it will be the same
Empire while strong everyone is sitting as
soon as now the Empire is already staggering
due to the fact  that it is losing in Ukraine
, some such decentralization movements have already begun
in Russia, they will
we will accelerate and we will see in just a couple of
months how everything will change and
how differently these
leaders of the republics and all these
deputies and people
and those who were sent to war will begin to speak I believe
that the Russian Empire will crumble very quickly
, but Our task is to shake it
so that it crumbles even faster,
we were waiting for some moment, because
every day there, every month of the
existence of this empire, these are dead
people in Ukraine and dead people in
Russia, these are the months of genocide of one’s own and
other people’s people
Yes, you are right I support
your every word and
again  I want to remind people
first of all to our fellow countrymen, we
don’t just sit here
and don’t wait for
manna from heaven, we try to help the
Ukrainian people and try to help
our people, we try to unite
national movements passed
[music]
this is the decision of the
Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on recognition
[  music]
Department of bathing
indigenous peoples
occupied by Moscow
is This is the first step to
liberate  and now
Naturally, with the help of Ukraine, we will
already
turn to other Western countries so that
they also support
first of all,
because we are striving, we are appealing,
we are establishing contacts with politicians, with
deputies of the Supreme
Rana, also saints, the
Baltic sides, these are Estonia,
these are the countries that, along with Ukraine,
also  were subjected to
many years of
[music]
genocide of
repression and they know what it is,
and therefore they support Ukraine
if the Russian world comes,
then the death of people again, the genocide of people is
inevitable, they come not
to build
a better society there, but to
destroy it, as it happens in Ukraine
and that’s all  should understand
What is it Don’t watch these Russian
news, watch YouTube Watch the video
from the first channel
Andrey don’t care, there are many different
channels that tell the truth and these are not
some kind of staged
directing ordinary conversations,
so
Thank you for inviting
me and thank you very much  what  you
took the time to convey your thoughts to people
because I always say that she will look at us
conditionally
10000 100 may have something in their heads
and 10 will start to act and this
will already change the world
and let's finally so that you would like to
wish Ukrainians and people in Russia in
including your compatriot
airat to the
Ukrainians, I can only wish Victory, of
course, this is the first THAT What is necessary for
victory is a complete
defeat.
You have already done so much even in the first
days of the war for
two or three days it was already clear what I remember.
One of my comrades
came to me and said  they said He says you
understand he says Ukraine
I didn’t argue with him just
think to themselves Well, the West may be publishing
but will the Ukrainians agree
because these are the events of which I spoke
about the Maidan how people
came together and fought for their
independence And now it’s coming  the war and
what kind of solidarity the whole country shows,
from young to old, kids collect
money by selling what they made their
bracelets
here in France, everyone
supports Ukraine, we
regularly collect some products almost every month, take them to
collection
points, and I see
how much is collected there, and it’s
not just me, it’s a lot of
a whole city, and so in every city,
humanitarian
as well as military assistance,
I would like this  there was more
more help, more
like a weapon. I want to
finally give
offensive weapons, not just
defensive ones, this will
support the army and make it more
effective, but even now the
Russian army is
no good. you dispelled the myth
about
this invincible and great
one
.  Many of
them
are subject to
propaganda and somehow support Yes, but by
supporting the Russian Empire, you
express in this way
but
[music]
among my associates
our freedom and yours
Thank you we had  visiting
duelist Eren price Chen of the congress today a number of the
Kalmyk people and a member of the League of Free
Nations thank you very much, I also
always ask if we have a
greeting word to Ukraine Glory to the Heroes,
but how
is there some kind of slogan how you communicate
welcome
But usually
such a slogan Which is all
motivates This
olengut
uralamit
uralanke forward
this one has transformed Because
before they
spoke Arabic
also Kalmyk is not Kalmyk And in the Kalmyk
hillock of the
Urals we will end on this positive note
I think we will still make
meetings from representatives and further so
representatives of different peoples of Russia
so who are fighting for  our
independence and we will talk with you again
because I think that we
should convey the truth through the
veil of these television channels
that
throw this dust of the Russian world over there. So
we will know that we come to a dirty
room, our work is very hard, but
we must clean and we  everything will be polished
thanks goodbye  nia